# Exploring Dataset Metadata Between Projects with Data Catalog || (GSP789)

### Run the following Commands in CloudShell ( `Project-1` Or `NYC Bike Share Project` )

```
export PROJECT_ID_2=
export REGION=
```
```
curl -LO https://raw.githubusercontent.com/prabhakaran-jm/arcade-june2024/master/TheArcadeCertificationZone/gsp789.sh

sudo chmod +x gsp789.sh

./gsp789.sh
```

### Run the following Query in `BigQuery` ( `Project-1` Or `NYC Bike Share Project` )

```
WITH unknown AS (
  SELECT
    gender,
    CONCAT(start_station_name, " to ", end_station_name) AS route,
    COUNT(*) AS num_trips
  FROM
    `new_york_citibike.citibike_trips`
  WHERE gender = 'unknown'
  GROUP BY
    gender,
    start_station_name,
    end_station_name
  ORDER BY
    num_trips DESC
  LIMIT 5
)

, female AS (
  SELECT
    gender,
    CONCAT(start_station_name, " to ", end_station_name) AS route,
    COUNT(*) AS num_trips
  FROM
    `new_york_citibike.citibike_trips`
  WHERE gender = 'female'
  GROUP BY
    gender,
    start_station_name,
    end_station_name
  ORDER BY
    num_trips DESC
  LIMIT 5
)

, male AS (
  SELECT
    gender,
    CONCAT(start_station_name, " to ", end_station_name) AS route,
    COUNT(*) AS num_trips
  FROM
    `bigquery-public-data.new_york_citibike.citibike_trips`
  WHERE gender = 'male'
  GROUP BY
    gender,
    start_station_name,
    end_station_name
  ORDER BY
    num_trips DESC
  LIMIT 5
)

SELECT * FROM unknown
UNION ALL
SELECT * FROM female
UNION ALL
SELECT * FROM male;
```

Which BigQuery UI tab will show you the data types?
**Schema**
Details
Preview

Using the Details tab, how many records are in this table?
Less than 500,000
1 Million
**1.6+ Million** 

Using the Schema tab, which fields could be sensitive and need to be handled with care?
number_of_persons_killed
on_street_name
location
**All of the Above**

What could be a solution for addressing privacy and sensitivity concerns?
Control access at the project and role level
Find a way to tag the dataset / columns as sensitive
Control access at the column level
**All of the Above** 

What was the most common factor?
Fatigued/Drowsy
**Driver Inattention/Distraction**
Failure to Yield Right-of-Way

How many records are in the table citibike_trips table? Choose the best answer
**Over 58 Million Trips**
Over 210 Million Trips
Less than 1 Million Trips


TRUE or FALSE: The most popular route for males is the same as the most popular route for females
True
**False**

Looking at the citibike_trips table schema, which fields will you want to tag as sensitive?
birth_year
gender
customer_plan
**All of the Above**

True or false: Data Catalog can only surface BigQuery metadata and tags and not other data systems like Pub/Sub
True
**False**

Regardless of the project you are logged into, Data Catalog will surface ALL of the BigQuery datasets that your role has access to.


Refer to the Type column. Which Datasets can you see in the Data Catalog search as a Data Analyst user?
new_york_mv_collisions
**new_york_citibike**
taxi
none

True or false: Google Cloud project owners have to maintain a separate access control list for BigQuery metadata in Data Catalog and cannot pass through existing BigQuery permissions for a given user.
True
**False**





